Sirius.Leto
==============================================================================================================================================================

Open-source Software Laboratory for DMTS ISP RAS participates in the program "Sirius.Leto", aimed at involving talented young people in working on current scientific and technological, engineering and research project tasks.
Within the framework of this program, during the 2020-2021 academic year, young employees of the laboratory act as mentors of scientific projects for school students in 8-11 years of study who want to get acquainted with the field of numerical simulation and work on actual practical tasks. As a result, pupils will be able to prepare for all-Russian and international competitions, including applying for participation in the all-Russian competition of scientific and technological projects "Big challenges" (https://konkurs.sochisirius.ru/).
The pupils were invited to participate in two projects: "Natural Hazards Supercomputer Simulation" and "Flow Simulation Around a Supersonic Passenger Aircraft and Assessing Its Influence on the Environment".
The first project is dedicated to the development of a software product for supercomputer modeling of natural hazards using a laboratory experiment to simulate a snow flow/avalanche on a slope. The experimentsl model is planned to be done by additive manufacturing, the flow material will be used for non-Newtonian fluid, free-flowing mixture or suspension. As a result, an open source software product will be developed for supercomputer simulation of natural hazards in the mountains and icing. Simulations will be made for a number of natural hazards in the Khibiny mountains, the Caucasus, and Sakhalin island. Daria Romanova is the main mentor of this project.
Video presentation of the project: https://youtu.be/xKmpi-mS6Xo
The second project is aimed at studying the influence of a supersonic passenger aircraft shape on the environment using supercomputer modeling. During the project, it is planned to study the physical processes that occur when a passenger plane moves at supersonic speeds and its impact on the environment; develop a numerical model describing these processes; create a prototype of an open source program for determining the intensity of a sound impact on the ground when a supersonic passenger plane flows around; conduct numerical experiments based on the created programs and using a supercomputer. Kirill Vatutin is the main mentor of this project.
Video presentation of the project : https://youtu.be/d9AY-M_OrMA