Matvey Kraposhin (MSc in 2006, PhD in 2017) started his career in 2005
as an engineer of [[National Research Center "Kurchatov
institute"]{.underline}](http://eng.nrcki.ru/). His first project was
the development of visualization and control program for numerical model
of technical systems. During 2005 -- 2014 he advanced in the career from
engineer to the head of the laboratory of spatial hydrodynamics. In 2015
he joined ISP RAS institute to facilitate the creation and growth of a
new laboratory established for the development of Russian scientific and
engineering open-source software.

Since then, Matvey Kraposhin has been working as the head of Open-source
Software Laboratory for Digital Modelling of Technical Systems in the
[[ISP RAS]{.underline}](https://www.ispras.ru/). As an advocate of OSS,
he gradually applies and appeals to his colleagues to use and extend
various open-source programs for solving fundamental and practical fluid
problems. He is a convicted descendant of the idea that Open-Source
Software is the modern unified language for communication between
education, industry, and research. OSS allows the development of
programs with fewer efforts, to deliver new knowledge to an audience
faster and to train students better. Some results of Matvey's work are
published at GitHub
([[https://github.com/unicfdlab]{.underline}](https://github.com/unicfdlab)
) as modules for the OpenFOAM platform. These results include:

\- hybridCentralSolvers -- the set of solvers for the numerical
simulation of compressible gas flows using hybrid Kurganov/PIMPLE
approximation scheme;

\- QGDsolver - the framework for simulation of fluid flows using
regularized equations approach (compressible gases with Mach numbers
from 0 to infinity, incompressible flow, interfacial flows,
multicomponent flows, etc);

\- libAcoustics - the library for far-field noise computation using
Curle and Ffowcs Williams -- Hawking analogies.

To help newbies with migration to the OpenFoam platform Matvey develops
and delivers training tracks dedicated to the solution of fluid flow
cases. All tracks with presentations and corresponding materials can be
found at GitHub:
[[https://github.com/unicfdlab/TrainingTracks]{.underline}](https://github.com/unicfdlab/TrainingTracks)

Since 2015, he chairs the section of Isp Ras Open conference [["Open
Source Software for Computational Mechanics
Problems"]{.underline}](https://www.isprasopen.ru/en/)

The main research interests of Matvey Kraposhin are: fluid dynamics,
numerical modelling, multiscale modelling, open-source software,
compressible flows, two-phase flows, interdisciplinary models

Links:

Google scholar:
[[https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=dNIvricAAAAJ&hl=en]{.underline}](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=dNIvricAAAAJ&hl=en)

ResearchGate:
[[https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Matvey\_Kraposhin]{.underline}](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Matvey_Kraposhin)

LinkedIn:
[[https://www.linkedin.com/in/matvey-kraposhin-413869163]{.underline}](https://www.linkedin.com/in/matvey-kraposhin-413869163)

Education:

2006 -- MSc, Moscow Power Engineering Institute, Department of Nuclear
Power Plants. His MSc work was dedicated to sensitivity and uncertainty
analysis of NPP with the PWR model.

2017 -- Ph.D., Keldysh Institute of Applied Mathematics of the RAS. The
title of the thesis is: "Mathematical modelling of compressible flows
with a hybrid approximation for convective fluxes".
